# Lab 2: Jakub Hlaváček

Link to your `Digital-electronics-2` GitHub repository:

   [https://github.com/Jakubhl](https://github.com/Jakubhl/Digital-electronics-2)


| **LED color** | **Supply voltage** | **LED current** | **LED voltage** | **Resistor value** |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| red | 5&nbsp;V | 20&nbsp;mA | | |
| blue | 5&nbsp;V | 20&nbsp;mA | | |

> Note that, equation was generated by [Online LaTeX Equation Editor](https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php) using the following code.
```LaTeX
R = \frac{V_{SUPPLY}-V_{LED}}{I} =
```
>

3. Draw the basic ways to connect a push button to the microcontroller input pin: button active-low, button active-high.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;


<a name="part1"></a>
## Part 1: Synchronize repositories and create a new folder

When you start working, always synchronize the contents of your working folder and local repository with remote version at GitHub. This way you are sure that you will not lose any of your changes.

Run Git Bash (Windows) of Terminal (Linux), navigate to your working directory, and update local repository.

```bash
## Windows Git Bash:
$ cd d:/Documents/
$ cd your-name/
$ ls
Digital-electronics-2/
$ cd Digital-electronics-2/
$ git pull

## Linux:
$ cd
$ cd Documents/
$ cd your-name/
$ ls
Digital-electronics-2/
$ cd Digital-electronics-2/
$ git pull
```

Create a new working folder `Labs/02-leds` for this exercise.

```bash
## Windows Git Bash or Linux:
$ cd Labs/
$ mkdir 02-leds
```


<a name="part2"></a>
## Part 2: Active-low and active-high LEDs

AVR microcontroller associates pins into so-called ports, which are marked with the letters A, B, C, etc. Each of the pins is controlled separately and can function as an input (entry) or output (exit) point of the microcontroller. Control is possible exclusively by software via control registers.

There are exactly three control registers for each port: DDR, PORT and PIN, supplemented by the letter designation of the port. For port A these are registers DDRA, PORTA and PINA, for port B registers DDRB, PORTB, PINB, etc.

DDR (Data Direction Register) is used to set the input/output direction of port communication, PORT is the output data port and PIN works for reading input values from the port.

A detailed description of working with input/output ports can be found in [ATmega328P datasheet](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/ATmega328p) in section I/O-Ports.

Use the datasheet to find out the meaning of the DDRB and PORTB control register values and their combinations. (Let PUD (Pull-up Disable) bit in MCUCR (MCU Control Register) is 0 by default.)

| **DDRB** | **Description** |
| :-: | :-- |
| 0 | Input pin |
| 1 | |

| **PORTB** | **Description** |
| :-: | :-- |
| 0 | Output low value |
| 1 | |

| **DDRB** | **PORTB** | **Direction** | **Internal pull-up resistor** | **Description** |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-- |
| 0 | 0 | input | no | Tri-state, high-impedance |
| 0 | 1 | | | |
| 1 | 0 | | | |
| 1 | 1 | | | |

See [schematic of Arduino Uno board](../../Docs/arduino_shield.pdf) in docs folder of Digital-electronics-2 repository and find out which pins of ATmega328P can be used as input/output pins. To which pin is the LED L connected? Is it connected as active-low or active-high? Note that labels on Arduino `~3`, `~5`, etc. do not mean that the signals are inverted; the `~` symbol indicates that a PWM (Pulse-width modulation) signal can be generated on these pins.

| **Port** | **Pin** | **Input/output usage?** |
| :-: | :-: | :-- |
| A | x | Microcontroller ATmega328P does not contain port A |
| B | 0 | Yes (Arduino pin 8) |
|   | 1 |  |
|   | 2 |  |
|   | 3 |  |
|   | 4 |  |
|   | 5 |  |
|   | 6 |  |
|   | 7 |  |
| C | 0 | Yes (Arduino pin A0) |
|   | 1 |  |
|   | 2 |  |
|   | 3 |  |
|   | 4 |  |
|   | 5 |  |
|   | 6 |  |
|   | 7 |  |
| D | 0 | Yes (Arduino pin RX<-0) |
|   | 1 |  |
|   | 2 |  |
|   | 3 |  |
|   | 4 |  |
|   | 5 |  |
|   | 6 |  |
|   | 7 |  |

Use breadboard (or SimulIDE real time electronic circuit simulator), connect resistor and second LED to Arduino output pin in active-low way. **Let the second LED is connected to port C.**
